Online Project Management System

1. Introduction

The Online Project Management System is a web-based application that enables organizations and
project teams to plan, track, and manage projects. The system provides
platform for creating projects, assigning tasks, tracking progress,and generating reports
it suggessts an effective and enhance communication, and improve overall project efficiency.

2. Functional Requirements

1) User Management : 
The system shall provide user registration and authentication functionality.
Users shall be able to create accounts and log in using their credentials.
The system shall support different user roles, such as administrators, project managers, and team members.


2) Project Creation and Management
Project managers shall be able to create new projects and define project details (e.g., project name, start date, end date, description).
Projects shall have a unique identifier and can be assigned to specific teams.Project managers shall have the ability to update project details 
and archive completed projects.


3) Task Management
Project managers shall be able to create tasks within projects, assign them to team members, and set due dates.
Tasks shall have attributes such as task name, description, priority, and status.
Team members shall be able to update the status of assigned tasks, mark them as completed, and add comments or attachments.


4) Project Tracking and Reporting
The system shall provide real-time project progress tracking.
Users shall be able to view project timelines, milestones, and task dependencies.
The system shall generate reports on project status, task completion rates, and resource utilization.

5) Document Management
The system shall support document sharing and version control for project-related files.
Users shall be able to upload, access, and manage project documents securely.
The system shall maintain a revision history of documents and allow users to restore previous versions if needed.

3. Non-Functional Requirements

1) Security
User authentication and sensitive information shall be securely stored and transmitted.
Access to projects, tasks, and documents shall be controlled based on user roles and permissions.
The system shall implement encryption and secure communication protocols to protect data.

2) Performance
The system shall handle multiple concurrent users and provide responsive performance.
Response times for user interactions, such as creating tasks or generating reports, shall be within acceptable limits.

3) User Interface
The system shall have an intuitive and user-friendly interface.
The user interface shall be responsive and compatible with different devices and screen sizes.

Conclusion

In conclusion, the Online Project Management System is designed to provide organizations and project teams with a comprehensive
web-based platform for efficient project planning, tracking, and management.
The system's functional requirements encompass user
management, project creation and management, task management,document management. 
Non-functional requirements include security measures, performance optimization, a user-friendly interface, and
integrations with external services. By implementing this system and ultimately improve project efficiency and success.

Tale: Project Management

create table user(
userid int primary key,
uname varchar(30),
password varchar(30) not null,
email varchar(30) unique,
role varchar(30) not null
);


create table project(
projectid int primary key,
projname varchar(50) not null,
startdate date not null,
ebddate date not null,
description varchar(100)
);

create table task(
taskid int primary key,
taskname varchar(50) not null,
duedate date not null,
myprid int,
myusrid int,
constraint foreign key fk_myprid(myprid) references project (projectid) on update cascade on delete set null
);